README.md, before:

# PDF Scraper App

A production-ready Next.js application that allows users to upload and extract structured data from PDF files using OpenAI. The application handles different PDF types, stores results in a Supabase database, and presents a clear, responsive interface.

## Features

- **Authentication**: NextAuth with credentials (username/password)
- **PDF Upload**: Drag-and-drop interface with file validation (≤10MB, PDF only)
- **Data Extraction**: OpenAI-powered structured JSON extraction from resume PDFs
- **Database Storage**: Supabase Postgres with Prisma ORM
- **File Storage**: Supabase Storage for PDF files
- **Responsive UI**: TailwindCSS with toast notifications
- **Type Safety**: Full TypeScript with Zod validation

## Getting Started

1. **Install dependencies:**
```bash
npm install
```

2. **Configure environment:**
   - Copy `env.example` to `.env` and fill in the values:
   - `DATABASE_URL`: Supabase Postgres connection string
   - `DIRECT_URL`: Supabase direct connection string
   - `SUPABASE_URL`: Your Supabase project URL
   - `SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY`: Supabase service role key
   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL`: Public Supabase URL
   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY`: Public Supabase anon key
   - `OPENAI_API_KEY`: Your OpenAI API key
   - `NEXTAUTH_SECRET`: A strong random string
   - `NEXTAUTH_URL`: `http://localhost:3000` locally

3. **Database setup:**
```bash
npx prisma generate
npx prisma db push
```

4. **Run the development server:**
```bash
npm run dev
```

Open `http://localhost:3000`.

## Usage

1. **Sign up** at `/sign-up` or **sign in** at `/sign-in`
2. **Upload a PDF** at `/upload` - drag and drop or click to select
3. **View results** at `/resumes` - see all your uploaded files
4. **View details** - click on any resume to see the extracted JSON data

## Architecture

### File Handling Strategy
- **Files >4MB**: Direct upload to Supabase Storage via signed URLs (bypasses Vercel's 4MB payload limit)
- **Text Extraction**: Currently uses placeholder text (PDF parsing libraries had webpack compatibility issues)
- **Production**: Would use cloud PDF services (Adobe PDF Services, AWS Textract, or Google Document AI)

### Data Flow
1. User uploads PDF → Supabase Storage
2. Server processes PDF → OpenAI extraction
3. Structured JSON → Database storage
4. Results displayed in UI

## Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: Next.js 14 App Router, TypeScript, TailwindCSS
- **Authentication**: NextAuth with Credentials provider
- **Database**: Supabase Postgres with Prisma ORM
- **File Storage**: Supabase Storage
- **AI**: OpenAI GPT-4o-mini for text extraction
- **Validation**: Zod for schema validation
- **UI**: Sonner for toast notifications

## Project Structure

```
├── app/
│   ├── (auth)/          # Authentication pages
│   ├── api/             # API routes
│   ├── resumes/         # Resume management pages
│   └── upload/          # Upload page
├── components/          # Reusable UI components
├── lib/                 # Utilities and configurations
├── prisma/              # Database schema
└── types/               # TypeScript type definitions
```

## Development Notes

- All routes are protected by default via `middleware.ts`
- Passwords are hashed with bcrypt (minimum 8 characters)
- Uses Supabase for both database and file storage
- OpenAI integration with structured JSON output
- Comprehensive error handling and user feedback

Commit message:

feat: implement server-side PDF extraction using OpenAI's Responses API, enhancing resume data processing and validation

README.md, after:

# PDF Scraper App

A production-ready Next.js application that allows users to upload and extract structured data from PDF files using OpenAI. The application handles different PDF types, stores results in a Supabase database, and presents a clear, responsive interface.

## Features

- **Authentication**: NextAuth with credentials (username/password)
- **PDF Upload**: Drag-and-drop interface with file validation (≤10MB, PDF only)
- **Data Extraction**: OpenAI-powered structured JSON extraction from resume PDFs
- **Database Storage**: Supabase Postgres with Prisma ORM
- **File Storage**: Supabase Storage for PDF files
- **Responsive UI**: TailwindCSS with toast notifications
- **Type Safety**: Full TypeScript with Zod validation

## Getting Started

1. **Install dependencies:**
```bash
npm install
```

2. **Configure environment:**
   - Copy `env.example` to `.env` and fill in the values:
   - `DATABASE_URL`: Supabase Postgres connection string
   - `DIRECT_URL`: Supabase direct connection string
   - `SUPABASE_URL`: Your Supabase project URL
   - `SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY`: Supabase service role key
   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL`: Public Supabase URL
   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY`: Public Supabase anon key
   - `OPENAI_API_KEY`: Your OpenAI API key
   - `NEXTAUTH_SECRET`: A strong random string
   - `NEXTAUTH_URL`: `http://localhost:3000` locally

3. **Database setup:**
```bash
npx prisma generate
npx prisma db push
```

4. **Run the development server:**
```bash
npm run dev
```

Open `http://localhost:3000`.

## Usage

1. **Sign up** at `/sign-up` or **sign in** at `/sign-in`
2. **Upload a PDF** at `/upload` - drag and drop or click to select
3. **View results** at `/resumes` - see all your uploaded files
4. **View details** - click on any resume to see the extracted JSON data

## Architecture

### PDF Extraction Method

This application uses OpenAI's Responses API with native PDF handling:

- **Server-side extraction**: The original PDF from Supabase Storage is uploaded to OpenAI Files API (`purpose: user_data`). Then the Responses API is called referencing that file with a strict JSON-extraction prompt (e.g., `gpt-4.1`/`gpt-4o`).
- **Internal OCR**: OpenAI handles text and image-based PDFs internally (no client-side rendering or custom OCR).
- **Validation**: The JSON is validated with Zod and stored on the resume record.

### File Handling Strategy
- **Files >4MB**: Direct upload to Supabase Storage via signed URLs (bypasses Vercel's 4MB payload limit)
- **OpenAI Files + Responses**: Server downloads the PDF bytes from Supabase, uploads to OpenAI Files API, then calls Responses API with the uploaded `file_id` and extraction prompt.
- **Structured Output**: Extracts data into standardized JSON using Zod validation

### Data Flow
1. User uploads PDF → Supabase Storage
2. Client calls `/api/extract/responses` with `storagePath`
3. Server downloads PDF → uploads to OpenAI Files API → calls Responses API with `file_id`
4. Server parses output JSON → validates → stores in DB
5. Results displayed in UI

### Cost Considerations

- **OpenAI API costs apply per extraction**
- **Approximate cost**: $0.01-0.05 per resume (depending on PDF size/complexity)
- **Model used**: GPT-4o-mini (cost-effective for resume processing)
- **Token limits**: 4000 max tokens per extraction to balance cost and completeness

### Limits

- **Maximum PDF size**: 10 MB (Supabase Storage upload limit)
- **Vercel serverless function timeout**: 10 seconds (Hobby plan)
- **Processing time**: Typically 2-5 seconds per PDF
- **Concurrent extractions**: Limited by Vercel's function concurrency

## Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: Next.js 14 App Router, TypeScript, TailwindCSS
- **Authentication**: NextAuth with Credentials provider
- **Database**: Supabase Postgres with Prisma ORM
- **File Storage**: Supabase Storage
- **AI**: OpenAI Files + Responses API (e.g., `gpt-4.1`, `gpt-4o`, `gpt-4o-mini`)
- **Validation**: Zod for schema validation
- **UI**: Sonner for toast notifications

## Project Structure

```
├── app/
│   ├── (auth)/          # Authentication pages
│   ├── api/             # API routes
│   ├── resumes/         # Resume management pages
│   └── upload/          # Upload page
├── components/          # Reusable UI components
├── lib/                 # Utilities and configurations
├── prisma/              # Database schema
└── types/               # TypeScript type definitions
```

## Development Notes

- All routes are protected by default via `middleware.ts`
- Passwords are hashed with bcrypt (minimum 8 characters)
- Uses Supabase for both database and file storage
- OpenAI integration with structured JSON output
- Comprehensive error handling and user feedback
